question 1: configure ssh key
solution: first create an ssh key 
    ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "vijaykanwal90@gmail.com"

    list the keys
    $ ls ~/.ssh
    view the public key
    $ cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub
    
    copy that key 
    under the ssh & gpg key section
    click on add new ssh
    give a title
    past the key you copied earlier

question2 : Create a repository on github account.
        sign in github
        create a new repository - ck-day6

question3 : Clone the above repository 
    clone via ssh
    git clone 


question4 : Create a new file, say test.txt, in main/master branch. Make some changes to this file and commit the changes.
        file created 
        git add test.txt ( done through Gui)
        git commit -m "day6- file created and first commit "
        git push

question 5 and 6 :Create two branches from main/master branch, say f1 and f2.
        create two branch git branch f1 and git branch f2
        switch to f1 - git switch f1 
        make some changes -> add them to staging -> commit the changes -> push the changes to origin git push origin f1
        switch to f2 
        make some changes -> add them to staging -> commit the changes -> push the changes to origin git push origin f2
        now switch to  the main branch
        git merge f1 - everything is fine
        git merge f2 - now encounterd git merge conflict
        merge conflict resolved through merge editor and git commit -m "message" new comment added
        git push 


question 7: Show how divergence occurs in a branch.
        Suppose we have a main branch and we created a branch from it ( feature-1 branch) and started working on the feature and there are changes on the main branch as well so it will create the divergence and if later on we want to get those changes from the main we  merge the main branch to our feature branch or rebase
        to merge- $ git merge main  - extra commit added 
        to rebase $ git rebase main - keeps clean history  no extra commit added

question 8: Difference between git init and git clone.
        git init - git init is command to initialize a new git repository on a existing directory on our local machine to manage and track the changes . It creates a .git file which store all the information

        git clone - git clone is used to create a copy of an existing git repository and get the all the history of git. It is generally done from a github

question 9 : Difference between git branch and checkout
        git branch - this command can be used in several way 
            to see the current and all the branches 
                git branch
            to create a new branch
                git branch branchname
            to delete branch
                git branch -d branchname
        git checkout 
            to switch branch
                git checkout branchname
            to create a new branch and switch
                git checkout -b newbranch
question 10: Difference between git fetch and git pull
        git fetch - It download the remote changes to our local branch but do not apply them . we can compare those changes and if they seem right them can merge them manually using git merge branch
        git pull - It also download the remote changes but it updates the local changes and could give us the merge conflicts

question 11: How to squash commits?
        squash means merging multiple commits into a single commit to make history clean and readable.
        ways to squash commits
            1. git rebase 
                rebase n commits eg git rebase -i HEAD~3
                
